# yarn-service

YARN Simplified API layer for services
- API version: 1.0.0
  - Build date: 2018-08-06T11:50:42.318+02:00

Bringing a new service on YARN today is not a simple experience. The APIs of existing frameworks are either too low level (native YARN), require writing new code (for frameworks with programmatic APIs) or writing a complex spec (for declarative frameworks).  This simplified REST API can be used to create and manage the lifecycle of YARN services. In most cases, the application owner will not be forced to make any changes to their applications. This is primarily true if the application is packaged with containerization technologies like Docker.  This document describes the API specifications (aka. YarnFile) for deploying/managing containerized services on YARN. The same JSON spec can be used for both REST API and CLI to manage the services. 


*Automatically generated by the [Swagger Codegen](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen)*


## Requirements

Building the API client library requires:
1. Java 1.7+
2. Maven/Gradle

## Installation

To install the API client library to your local Maven repository, simply execute:

```shell
mvn clean install
```

To deploy it to a remote Maven repository instead, configure the settings of the repository and execute:

```shell
mvn clean deploy
```

Refer to the [OSSRH Guide](http://central.sonatype.org/pages/ossrh-guide.html) for more information.

### Maven users

Add this dependency to your project's POM:

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.apache.yarn.service</groupId>
  <artifactId>yarn-service</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.0</version>
  <scope>compile</scope>
</dependency>
```

### Gradle users

Add this dependency to your project's build file:

```groovy
compile "org.apache.yarn.service:yarn-service:3.0.0"
```

### Others

At first generate the JAR by executing:

```shell
mvn clean package
```

Then manually install the following JARs:

* `target/yarn-service-3.0.0.jar`
* `target/lib/*.jar`

## Getting Started

Please follow the [installation](#installation) instruction and execute the following Java code:

```java

import org.apache.cb.yarn.service.api.*;
import org.apache.cb.yarn.service.api.auth.*;
import org.apache.cb.yarn.service.api.records.*;
import org.apache.cb.yarn.service.api.impl.DefaultApi;

import java.io.File;
import java.util.*;

public class DefaultApiExample {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        
        DefaultApi apiInstance = new DefaultApi();
        try {
            List<Service> result = apiInstance.appV1ServicesGet();
            System.out.println(result);
        } catch (ApiException e) {
            System.err.println("Exception when calling DefaultApi#appV1ServicesGet");
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}

```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *http://localhost*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*DefaultApi* | [**appV1ServicesGet**](docs/DefaultApi.md#appV1ServicesGet) | **GET** /app/v1/services | (TBD) List of services running in the cluster.
*DefaultApi* | [**appV1ServicesPost**](docs/DefaultApi.md#appV1ServicesPost) | **POST** /app/v1/services | Create a service
*DefaultApi* | [**appV1ServicesServiceNameComponentsComponentNamePut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#appV1ServicesServiceNameComponentsComponentNamePut) | **PUT** /app/v1/services/{service_name}/components/{component_name} | Flex a component&#39;s number of instances.
*DefaultApi* | [**appV1ServicesServiceNameDelete**](docs/DefaultApi.md#appV1ServicesServiceNameDelete) | **DELETE** /app/v1/services/{service_name} | Destroy a service
*DefaultApi* | [**appV1ServicesServiceNameGet**](docs/DefaultApi.md#appV1ServicesServiceNameGet) | **GET** /app/v1/services/{service_name} | Get details of a service.
*DefaultApi* | [**appV1ServicesServiceNamePut**](docs/DefaultApi.md#appV1ServicesServiceNamePut) | **PUT** /app/v1/services/{service_name} | Update a service or upgrade the binary version of the components of a running service
*DefaultApi* | [**appV1ServicesVersionGet**](docs/DefaultApi.md#appV1ServicesVersionGet) | **GET** /app/v1/services/version | Get current version of the API server.


## Documentation for Models

 - [Artifact](docs/Artifact.md)
 - [Component](docs/Component.md)
 - [ComponentState](docs/ComponentState.md)
 - [ConfigFile](docs/ConfigFile.md)
 - [Container](docs/Container.md)
 - [ContainerState](docs/ContainerState.md)
 - [KerberosPrincipal](docs/KerberosPrincipal.md)
 - [ModelConfiguration](docs/ModelConfiguration.md)
 - [PlacementConstraint](docs/PlacementConstraint.md)
 - [PlacementPolicy](docs/PlacementPolicy.md)
 - [PlacementScope](docs/PlacementScope.md)
 - [PlacementType](docs/PlacementType.md)
 - [ReadinessCheck](docs/ReadinessCheck.md)
 - [Resource](docs/Resource.md)
 - [ResourceInformation](docs/ResourceInformation.md)
 - [Service](docs/Service.md)
 - [ServiceState](docs/ServiceState.md)
 - [ServiceStatus](docs/ServiceStatus.md)


## Documentation for Authorization

All endpoints do not require authorization.
Authentication schemes defined for the API:

## Recommendation

It's recommended to create an instance of `ApiClient` per thread in a multithreaded environment to avoid any potential issues.

## Author



